9news now has uncovered new information
on a deadly police shooting in Culpepper
and I witness now contradicting the
police version of yesterday's
confrontation in a Catholic school
parking lot that ended with the death of
54 year old Patricia cook
Peggy Fox is in Culpepper with the
latest on this investigation
an eyewitness here in Culpepper is
contradicting what state police are
saying about the investigation and why
the Culpepper police officer fired at a
Sunday school teacher he had his hand on
the door handle one hand here in one
hand I remember distinctly because his
hands were real close together chris
boucher says he saw a Culpeper town
police officer shoot 54 year old
Patricia cooked to death in this church
parking lot yesterday morning cook was
in her Jeep Wrangler State Police say
cook rolled up the window catching the
officers arm inside and then dragged him
Michelle says it didn't happen that way
he was right next to the vehicle he had
one hand on the door handle and one hand
on his weapon and she was rolling the
window up and they were exiting out of
the parking lot the window was halfway
up he said stop or I'll shoot
and I didn't think he was gonna do it
but she got the window all the way up
and that's when he shot and then she
took a left on the parking lot here and
he stepped out in the street and fired
five more times Michelle says the
officer was not dragged he says he
couldn't have had his arm caught because
he fired through the glass I'm angry I'm
frustrated I'm sad fighting back tears
right now cooks husband doesn't
understand why an officer would shoot
his unarmed wife multiple times
personally I think it may be an
overreaction
maybe excess of course but I guess I can
only surmise that he doesn't know why
his life was in the parking lot of the
Epiphany Catholic school their couples
pastor at Culpepper United Methodist
Church thinks she may have been there
searching for a job to work with
children because she loved her volunteer
role teaching Sunday school here we have
to celebrate the good things in the
parts that we had of patent and not just
what we've lost
Gary cook is filled with questions along
with his grief over his wife's killing I
wish they knew that was going on happen
Culpepper town police and the County
Sheriff's Department are assisting State
Police in the investigation no charges
have been filed but Gary Clark is
talking to an attorney about possible
legal action in Culpepper
Peggy thought nine years now well thank
you Peggy and we should note that
Virginia medical examiner does have
cooks body so he can determine the exact
cause of death
Virginia judge has just ruled the former
Culpepper police officer will spend
three years in jail for a crime that
shocked a community in January a jury
convicted Daniel Harmon Wright of
manslaughter for shooting and killing an
unarmed woman but the recommended
sentence of three years sparked outrage
Stephen cheetah has reaction to the
judge's decision tonight Stephen Ellison
Daniel Harmon Wright pleaded for
leniency he said he is haunted every
second of every day by what he did he
then apologized to the victim's family
the prosecutor then said that Harmon
Wright treated Patricia cook like a
videogame now the judge could have
reduced the jury sentence but instead
she imposed the three years still this
is not going over well with folks here
in Culpepper what exactly went down
during those heated moments on February
9th of last year remains a mystery but
the result led to the conviction of
former Culpeper police officer Daniel
Harmon right the way the police officer
did that was pretty horrible because he
killed the poor woman I mean he killed
the lady a jury found Harmon Wright
guilty of manslaughter and unlawful
shooting charges in January on that
winter morning Herman Wright responded
to a call about a suspicious car parked
in a church lot something apparently led
to an angry exchange between Harmon
Wright and 54 year-old Patricia and cook
Harmon Wright maintain cook tried to
drive away with his arm caught in her
window prompting him to open fire I
think it's very small and should be
I mean why give him anything the
incident drew sharp criticism from
residents of this Virginia town some
here believing manslaughter to be too
mild a determination for shooting and
killing an unarmed woman the jury's
recommended 3-year sentence for a crime
which could have drawn 25 years got
angry reactions doesn't seem fair to me
doesn't seem like justice was done the
jury determined that Harmon Wright will
serve out his three years in jail rather
than prison now we tried to get reaction
from Patricia cooks family they had no
comment however we do know they have
filed a multi-million dollar wrongful
death suit
reporting live Steven cheetah ABC 7 News
okay thank you Steve